Al - Zaman : American forces killed Shaikh Abdullah al - Ani , the preacher at the mosque in the town of Qaim , near the Syrian border .
[ This killing of a respected cleric will be causing us trouble for years to come . ]
DPA : Iraqi authorities announced that they had busted up 3 terrorist cells operating in Baghdad .
Two of them were being run by 2 officials of the Ministry of the Interior !
The MoI in Iraq is equivalent to the US FBI , so this would be like having J. Edgar Hoover unwittingly employ at a high level members of the Weathermen bombers back in the 1960s .
The third was being run by the head of an investment firm .
You wonder if he was manipulating the market with his bombing targets .
The cells were operating in the Ghazaliyah and al - Jihad districts of the capital .
Although the announcement was probably made to show progress in identifying and breaking up terror cells , I do n't find the news that the Baathists continue to penetrate the Iraqi government very hopeful .
It reminds me too much of the ARVN officers who were secretly working for the other side in Vietnam .
Al - Zaman : Guerrillas killed a member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party after kidnapping him in Mosul .
The police commander of Ninevah Province announced that bombings had declined 80 percent in Mosul , whereas there had been a big jump in the number of kidnappings .
On Wednesday guerrillas had kidnapped a cosmetic surgeon and his wife while they were on their way home .
In Suwayrah , Kut Province , two car bombs were discovered before they could be detonated .
( Kut is in southeastern Iraq and has an overwhelmingly Shiite population , who are on the lookout for Baathist saboteurs and willingly turn them in .
This willingness is the main difference in the number of bombings in the south as opposed to the center - north of the country . )
In Baghdad Kadhim Talal Husain , assistant dean at the School of Education at Mustansiriyah University , was assassinated with his driver in the Salikh district .
Guerrillas killed an engineer , Asi Ali , from Tikrit .
They also killed Shaikh Hamid 'Akkab , a clan elder of a branch of the Dulaim tribe in Tikrit .
His mother was also killed in the attack .
Two other Dulaim leaders have been killed in the past week and a half .
Guerrillas near Hawijah launched an attack that left 6 dead , including 4 Iraqi soldiers .
One of them was from the Jubur tribe and was deputy commander of the Hawijah garrison .
Two hundred members of the Batawi clan of the Dulaim demonstrated in Baghdad on Friday , protesting the killing of their clan elder , Shaikh Kadhim Sarhid and 4 of his sons , by gunmen wearing Iraqi army uniforms .
( This is a largely Sunni Arab clan , and some Sunni observers have accused Shiite elements in the government of being behind the assassination ; it is more likely the work of Sunni Arab guerrillas punishing the Batawi leaders for cooperating with the Dec. 15 elections . )
Al - Zaman : The Iraqi High Electoral Commission on Friday denied a request of the Debaathification Commission to exclude 51 individuals from running on party lists in the Dec. 15 elections on grounds of having been sufficiently involved in Baath activities to warrant their being excluded from civil office .
The Commission said it had no legal grounds for such an exclusion .
This item is a small one and easily missed .
But in my view it is highly significant .
The Debaathification Commission had been pushed by Ahmad Chalabi and his Iraqi National Congress very hard , and had pushed many Sunni Arabs into the arms of the guerrillas .
Chalabi has been increasingly marginalized within Iraq , however , despite his ties of clientelage with Washington and Tehran .
He is no longer in the dominant Shiite list , the United Iraqi Alliance , and wo n't have many seats in the new parliament .
Some 2,000 junior officers of the old Baath army have been recalled to duty in recent months , something Chalabi would have blocked if he could have .
Now the Electoral Commission is refusing to punish people for mere past Baath Party membership .
The situation in Iraq is only going to get better this way .
If someone committed a crime against humanity , prosecute the person .
If he or she did not , then they should have all the same rights as other Iraqis .
Al - Sharq al - Awsat reports that a key eyewitness in the trial of Saddam Hussein for a 1982 massacre at Dujail has died .
A team from the court managed to take his deposition before he died .
The trial begins again Nov. 28 .
In Baghdad the fighting still continues in several areas , mostly in Sadr city and Adhamiya .
Baghdadis do n't venture much out of their neighbourhoods any more , you never know where you might get stuck .
There has been talk that the night curfew might be implemented again .
My neighbourhood has been surrounded by American troops for three days now , helicopters have been circling over our heads non-stop .
Fedayeen are now visible on the street and they have become bolder than ever .
Yesterday there were tens of them putting road blocks on our street and setting up mortars , they only come out in the open when Americans leave the area , then they start firing mortars indiscriminately and shooting their AK - 47's in the air .
They are setting the road blocks at the exact same positions they were during the war last year , which indicates they are the same people .
And there is nothing we can do about it really , people who are suggesting that we go out and fight them are living in dream land .
Even the IP and ICDC have abandoned the neighbourhood , and those are trained and armed , so do n't expect scared civilians to do anything except to hide inside and pray a helicopter or a tank does n't bomb them , and also how are American soldiers going to distinguish the brave and valiant civilians from the Fedayeen ?
Everyone is apprehensive , there is some talk that April 9th and 10th are going to be bloody days .
Most people have n't gone to work the last few days , although it seems that the rest of Baghdad is ' normal ' ( if you can define what normal is ) .
There are rumours about preparations by slum dwellers for another looting spree against banks , governmental and public property similar to the one that took place last April , and I have already overheard youngsters in my neighbourhood joking about it and saying things like " This time we will be the first to loot , we did n't get anything the last time " .
Mosques are calling for donating blood , food , and medicine for Fallujah , and several convoys have already headed out for Fallujah , most of them returned later though .
What irritates me is this sudden false ' solidarity ' between Sunni and Shi'ite clerics , we all know that they would be glad to get at each other s throats when they have the chance , and Shia clerics were describing Fallujan insurgents as ' Ba'athists ' , ' Saddamites ' , ' Wahhabis ' , and ' terrorists ' just a few days ago .
So what happened ?
I guess it 's just the old new Arab ' Me against my brother , me and my brother against my cousin , me and my cousin against my enemy ' , or ' The enemy of my enemy is my friend ' thing going on again .
Speaking of Fallujah , we have only Al - Jazeera to rely on for our news from there .
They have sent over their top reporter Ahmed Mansour to the town , and he is spouting all kinds of propaganda hourly reminding me of Al - Sahhaf .
" They are targetting ambulances " , " American snipers are shooting children and pregnant women " , and " They are using cluster bombs against civilians " is all you get to hear from him .
He did once make an unforgivable error when he mentioned that Fallujan militants were shooting at the Marines from the roofs of mosques and houses in Hay Al - Golan , but of course that is okay for Al - Jazeera .
Someone who called himself Abu Hafs from the Ibn Al - Khattab Brigades ( another new group ) was on Al - Jazeera describing the enormous casualties among the Marines and he sweared that American soldiers were mutilating the bodies of dead insurgents .
Over 300 Iraqis are reported dead and 500 reported wounded in Fallujah alone .
Al - Iraqiyah tv said that ICDC were controlling Ramadi .
Azzaman newspaper mentioned an announcement signed by Abdul Aziz bin Muqrin , an Al - Qaeda operative in Saudi Arabia on an Islamic website ' the voice of Jihad ' , in which he stated that " although mutilating dead bodies is not originally permitted in Islam , but in this case it is allowed if Muslims use it against infidels to deter them from committing criminal actions " .
He added that " America does not understand anything except the language of force and retaliation , they were kicked out of Somalia in humiliation after that soldier was dragged in Mogadishu for the whole world to see " , and that " the day will come when the dead bodies of Americans and Jews would be dragged , defiled , and stepped on in the Arabian peninsula together with their agents and supporters " .
Elena 's motorcycle tour through the region around Chernobyl has revived interest in one of the most serious nuclear disasters in history .
We all know what happened , but even to this day , there are many different versions and opinions on how it happened and what effect Chernobyl will have on the health of people affected by the fallout .
UPDATE :
Now you can tour Chernobyl and write your own story .
This is not a post about fault - finding or assigning blame .
It is a time to learn what happened and how it may affect the future .
There was a soothing authoritative UNSCEAR ( United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation ) report in 2000 on the health effects of Chernobyl confirming that there was no scientific evidence of any significant radiation - related health effects to most people exposed .
This was heavily promoted by the Australasian Radiation Protection Society in a press release titled THE MYTHS OF CHERNOBYL which contained the following :
One of the most widespread myths of recent times is that the Chernobyl nuclear reactor accident in 1986 caused many thousands of extra cancer deaths in neighbouring regions , and that public health has been severely affected by exposure to radiation .
Many people still believe that to be true , even though the Ministry of Russian Federation on Civil Defence , Emergencies and Elimination of Conseguences of Natural Disasters ( EMERCOM of Russia ) reported this in 1996 :
CHERNOBYL ACCIDENT : TEN YEARS ON
In the last decade , there has been a real and significant increase in childhood and , to a certain extent , adult carcinoma of the thyroid in contaminated regions of the former Soviet Union ( Wi940 ) which should be attributed to the Chernobyl accident until proven otherwise .
The prestigious IAEA ( International Atomic Energy Agency ) published an early report on Chernobyl which was based on information from Russian sources and stated that there was no significant health effects .
However , in April 2001 , the IAEA published Fifteen Years after the Chernobyl Accident - Lessons learned . which contradict the earlier reports .
Here are some excerpts :
The dramatic increase in radiation - induced thyroid cancers in children and adolescents in Belarus , Russia , and Ukraine , which have been observed since 1991 , continues to this day .
... a drop in the birth rate , a deterioration in women 's reproductive health , an increase in complications during pregnancy and birth , and a deterioration in neonatal health ....
The dynamics of change in the state of health of children affected by the Chernobyl accident in all three countries - Belarus , Russia , and Ukraine - in the post-accident period is characterized by persistent negative tendencies : the morbidity rate is going up , the number of really healthy children is dropping , and disability is increasing .
As a parent , I can well imagine how painful it must be for those families whose children are succumbing to radiation poisoning .
There is a lot to learn about Chernobyl .
Being well - informed will give you certainty and that is desirable in a world of conflicting reports .
There are a wealth of references on Chernobyl .
Read some of the following links and draw your own conclusions .
These links present the many viewpoints that existed and still exist about the disaster called Chernobyl :
IAEA Report Lessons learned
http://www.ibiblio.org/expo/soviet.exhibit/chernobyl.html
http://www.ibrae.ac.ru/IBRAE/eng/chernobyl/nat_rep/nat_repe.htm#24
http://www.nsrl.ttu.edu/chernobyl/wildlifepreserve.htm
http://www.environmentalchemistry.com/yogi/hazmat/articles/chernobyl1.html
http://digon_va.tripod.com/Chernobyl.htm
http://www.oneworld.org/index_oc/issue196/byckau.html
http://www.collectinghistory.net/chernobyl/
http://www.ukrainianweb.com/chernobyl_ukraine.htm
http://www.bullatomsci.org/issues/1993/s93/s93Marples.html
http://www.calguard.ca.gov/ia/Chernobyl-15%20years.htm
